---
layout: post
title:  "League H, Round Three"
date:   2016-09-21
---

<iframe id="gokibitz-EJa8if22W" src="//gokibitz.com/kifu/EJa8if22W"
style="float: right; margin-left: 1em; width: 400px; display: block;
border: 10px solid snow;"></iframe> <script
src="//gokibitz.com/embed/EJa8if22W"></script>

Third round! As expected, a very tough game for me and I lost. However
I don't feel bad about it at all, I've been hitting the Cho Hun-hyeon
books really hard for the past week in prep and I can honestly say
that I did my best. There were a couple of patterns I completely
screwed up in my previous games that I played correctly this time
around. Which isn't to say playing these patterns correctly was the
prudent thing to do, but hey, you gotta start somewhere, right?

Now that I'm three weeks in, there area two unforeseen benefits to
being involved in the American Yunguseng Dojang. The first, I'm
considerably less concerned about my online rank on KGS and DGS (which
is fine as it appears I'm still on a losing streak on both, ha!). I
suppose now that I'm in the Dojang, it just seems more important to me
and it certainly feels like a more valuable way to measure my
progress. Second, as much as I love KGS Automatch, there's something
surprisingly nice about playing against the same people you see online
every week during reviews and lectures. Everyone is incredibly polite,
nice, and serious about the game. Nobody is going to escape, be rude,
or act impatient that you're taking your time.

Just two more games to go in September and I intend to study just as
intensely for these as I did for this one.
