---
layout: post
title:  "US Go Congress Day 4"
date:   2016-08-02
---

# Round 3

<iframe id="gokibitz-VkHYpecuW" src="//gokibitz.com/kifu/VkHYpecuW"
style="float: right; margin-left: 1em; width: 400px; max-height:
585px; display: block; border: 10px solid snow;"></iframe> <script
src="//gokibitz.com/embed/VkHYpecuW"></script>

The same drill this morning. Felt relatively rested and I walked up to
my board right around 9am. My opponent was Tevis Tsai 7 kyu and I had
black again. I played the low Chinese and we ended up playing a very
memorable, fun and challenging game. I lost by resignation this time
due to a blunder as we entered the endgame. It was slightly
disappointing but Tevis's win was certainly very well deserved! So far
I've been pushed to my limits playing against AGA 7 kyus so I'm
starting to think my self rank estimation ended up being pretty darn
accurate.

Tevis was a swell fellow and did a quick review afterwards in the
lounge area. We differed on a few points with respect to our analysis
of the game and we both agreed it would be nice to get the feedback of
a stronger player (side note: we reviewed using single convex stones
and Tevis showed how useful they are during reviews - variation stones
are played curved side down so they are really simple to spot!).

Playing Go for three hours is a good way to work up an appetite so we
headed off to lunch. This time we had lunch in the congress building
food court since Tevis had a meal plan.

# Lunch

We chatted for a long time about the Go scene in Baltimore, Maryland
where Tevis hails as well as the Go scene in New York City. We also
talked about our mutual excitement about the National Go Center - it could
very well become a mecca for East Coast Go events. I discovered this
wasn't Tevis's first congress. I asked if the US Open was always this
hard at our levels and he confirmed. When we sat down we were joined
by Nathan Eagle, Ien Cheng, and Harry Teitelman. We talked about our
pro simul experiences, Go playing styles, Lee Chang-ho, Go Seigen, Lee
Sedol - you know the usual stuff when you're having lunch with people
with a passion for Go.

I was surprised many of the folks at the lunch table weren't familiar
with GoKibitz so I sang Nathan's praises a bit more and gave a little
demo with my US Open records.

# Pro Reviews

<image width="400" style="float: left; margin-right: 1em;
margin-bottom: 1em; border: 1px solid;"
src="http://swannodette.github.io/baduk/assets/images/zhou.png"></image>

I wanted to get my round 2 game reviewed by Feng Yun but I arrived too
late. Still I stuck around to watch several commentaries because as
usual there was tons to learn. She finished a bit early since she
needed to prepare for her invasion lecture so I wandered down into the
main hall to kill some time.

I spied Nathan Eagle - he looked like he was reviewing something with
Yuan Zhou and his other students. They looked pretty intense so I
didn't bother them. However Jonathan Hop was standing nearby and I
said hello. While we were talking I noticed a very familiar face. I
glanced at the badge -
[Daniela Trinks the translator of Level Up and Jump Level Up](http://senseis.xmp.net/?LevelUp)!

I introduced myself and thanked her for her translation work. As it turns
out Jonathan Hop was also a fan of the series and so that's how I
found myself standing with two very nice authors and contributors to
popular English Go books.

<image width="400" style="float: right; margin-left: 1em;
margin-bottom: 1em; border: 1px solid;"
src="http://swannodette.github.io/baduk/assets/images/hop_trinks.png"></image>

Daniela and I chatted a bit about South Korea where she is now
based. She teaches in the Baduk studies program at Myongji
University. I'm half Korean and as a child I'd spent quite a bit of
time in South Korea. Chances are I'll start traveling there regularly
to see family so she encouraged me to visit Myongji University the
next time I'm there and I most definitely will!

<image width="400" style="float: right; margin-left: 1em;
margin-bottom: 1em; border: 1px solid;"
src="http://swannodette.github.io/baduk/assets/images/hui.png"></image>

Before I headed off upstairs for a game review with Yang Yilun I spied
Fan Hui playing a game with Guo Juan observing. I couldn't help myself
and I snapped a picture. I ran into Tevis and we both headed to the
Beginner to 5k reviews area a few minutes early so we could be first in
line for the review.

<image width="400" style="float: right; margin-left: 1em;
margin-bottom: 1em; border: 1px solid;"
src="http://swannodette.github.io/baduk/assets/images/yang.png"></image>
    
Yang Yulin walked up wearing a cap and an awesome Cotsen Open t-shirt
which said "Go Big or Go Home Just Go". On the back was an image of
Alien vs. Predator playing Go. It was pretty awesome. Yang Yilun had
an incredible sense of humor and he had us laughing during the whole
review. The whole experience took the slight sting off of losing the
game.

Yang Yilun ended the commentary by saying we both played very
reasonable games for 7 kyu players. I stuck around for two more
interesting reviews before taking a short break from Go playing
activities.

# Evening League

I came back for the Evening League which, once again, I didn't
actually end up participating in. Instead I played a really fun even
game with Ethan from Mostly Go. It wasn't a super serious game in that
we spent a lot of time discussing while playing. David 1D (not me,
the person who we met in Amtrak line) observed our game and
patiently answered many questions we both had about various board
situations. Eventually David had to leave but he said he would be
attending the Mostly Go meetup more frequently now.

While we were playing our game
[Kevin Hwang of Go Talk](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCq9Fa2sPq2oI5jkECRZNoBw)
came by and introduced himself. He had seen my daily blog about the
congress and wanted to say hello. I told him how much I liked Go Talk
and he sat down for a bit and we chatted briefly.

Ethan and I wrapped up our game and I won by around the value of
komi. Ethan played well but I thought I personally needed to spend a
lot more time on my understanding of the endgame.

Right as I was about to leave Kevin Hwang returned and Ethan and I
both talked about how much we struggled with the opening as well as
the transition to the middlegame. Kevin (as well as some other dan
level observers) were kind enough to walk us through a bunch of
concepts explained in a simple way that I hadn't quite encountered
before. The whole experience reminded me how much easier it is grasp
concepts through conversation and face-to-face demonstration then it
is to eek it out of a book and self-study.

It was getting a bit late for me so I had to eventually excuse myself
but I decided that I would definitely be coming back tomorrow for the
die hard day. If anything my experience so far has shown me that in
order to improve I really need to play more games.
