---
layout: post
title:  "AYD Report Card"
date:   2017-01-01
---

<image width="100%" style="margin-bottom: 0.5em;"
src="http://swannodette.github.io/baduk/assets/images/report_card.jpg"></image>

After your first season and then every other season, In-seong creates
a personal report card identifying your strengths and weaknesses along
with advice on what to focus on when studying.  Upon entering AYD, I
probably wouldn't have characterized my style as aggressive, but after
three months of AYD games and reviews I now see that I consistently
choose to start trouble over taking guaranteed territory.

How to break the overly aggressive habit? 

Fast Tygem games. 

Like IGS I had an idle account (9 kyu) that I had only used for
watching pro broadcasts. In these fast games I'm trying to work on my
big picture issues. Even though Tygem 9 kyu should be significantly
below my level, I lost my first four fast games! Pretty strong
evidence that my aggressive style is damaging my ability to
improve. When I don't have a lot of time to work out some clever
sequence to get out of a bind I just lose.

Then I won the next three by focusing on my own stones and choosing
guaranteed points over starting fights. This allowed me to play
quickly since I am choosing the simplest way to proceed. And of course
when I'm building out my own territory in a calm manner often the
opponent will try to aggressively enter and now I can use my technical
sense to much greater effect - it's the opponent who has the
disadvantage, not me.

Like most important lessons this all sounds so simple now. Time to
level up!
