---
layout: post
title:  "Slow Progress"
date:   2017-02-21
---

<image width="400" style="float: left; margin-right: 1em;"
src="http://swannodette.github.io/baduk/assets/images/turtle.jpg"></image>

As of late, progress has been slow, but it's certainly not for lack of
playing. Though we're only a week away from the end of the month, I
already have about 50 live games in. But for all this actvitiy, I'm
currently 0-4 in American Yunguseng League G, which probably means I'll
be in League H next month. For a day or so this bothered me, but I
quickly came to my senses. Really, losing my Yunguseng matches has
hardly been the most sobering revelation of my Go this month.

So far I've been clobbered by 8 kyus on Fox, and 10 kyus on
Tygem. While a few of those losses can be attributed to sandbagging,
most of them can't. What In-seong said in the first season about your
moves identifiably falling into a range around your actual rank is
really getting driven home this month.

### Upper & lower bounds

While I may have a clever tesuji or sequence here and there that hands
me a game, I can feel that the lower bound of my play is dragging me
down. Part of the problem is that when you win, you feel that the win
is somehow representative of your progress. You focus on the moves
that led to that win and you de-emphasize all the mistakes made along
the way that your opponent was unable to exploit. The problem is
focusing only on your strengths and not on your weaknesses. Previously I
didn't play many even games against "weaker" players so it was hard to
see just how glaring my mistakes and misconceptions really were.

In games In-seong emphasizes the importance of not only focusing on
your opponent's weaknesses but also correctly assessing your own. This
advice about shape seems to apply just as well to one's approach to
Go. Perhaps my opponent plays slack moves, or bad exchanges, or
misreads a life and death situation. Ok, but my own weaknesses if
unchecked could still hand my opponent the game. Now when I play, I
find I have a little In-seong voice in my head asking me questions
about my weaknesses. Is this move really better than the proper one?
Is this move slack? Is this move an overplay? Is this really the
biggest point on the board?

### Moving forward

In the end I'm not really all that discouraged. I have far more
respect now for players around my rank "band" - I can learn from
players both "stronger" *and* "weaker" than me. I now see my fast
games as a way to improve the lower bound of my play. While on IGS I'm
starting to inch forward the upper bound of my play, on Fox I'm slowly
lifting the lower bound of my play. Thought this improvement isn't
converting into obvious observable results like a more significant
rank jump, I think very differently about a game that I play now than
I did in September and I don't think this change is completely
subjective.

In one of my AYD losses where I believed I played terribly, In-seong
said if he didn't know what our ranks were he would have assumed he
was observing a 3 kyu game.

The more games I play the more I understand my first AYD report card
advising me to spend 60% of my study regimen on playing. Theory is
useful, tsumego is useful, reviews are useful, but all of these things
come after *playing*.
