---
layout: post
title:  "Seattle Go Center"
date:   2017-04-23
---

I've always wanted to check out the
[Seattle Go Center](http://seattlego.com) and finally a business trip
gave me the much desired opportunity. While in the end I didn't make
it to the actual location, I got to spend a couple of enjoyable hours
hanging out with members from the center. This was possible thanks to
a Seattle Go Center event for the
[Seattle Cherry Blossom festival ](http://www.seattlego.org/2017/04/20/visit-us-at-the-cherry-blossom-festival/).

The festival was taking place at the Seattle Center right next to the
Space Needle and the Museum of Pop. It was pretty easy to find and
after a quick lunch, I walked up to second level of the Seattle Center
and saw a bunch of smiling folks playing 9x9. A few were even dressed
up in traditional Japanese attire! As I approached, a gentleman asked
me if I knew how to play and I said I did. He asked my rank and I
responded 5 kyu. Interestingly everyone was surprised and he said I
was stronger than all the volunteers teacher there. Then another
member quipped that wasn't quite true, and that Lucy was a 3 kyu.

She was in the middle of teaching several adults as well as children
how to play. She said she was interested in game after her bit of
teaching. While I waited a I taught a couple of kids the rules on a
7x7 board. After supervising their first game, Lucy came over with a
19x19 board and we started. She'd been studying seriously for just
over a year and was hoping to reach shodan by summertime. Given the
level of her play and her access to strong teachers through the Seattle Go
Center that seemed like a perfectly reasonable goal.

The game started off pretty calmly until I invaded perhaps a hair too
early. That invasion kicked off a running fight which she was able to
control and that more or less turned the game in her favor. A ill
considered ko widened the gap and after I gave up on that, my endgame
technique simply wasn't going to narrow it.

While my opponent thought the outcome would be close based on the
board, due to the large number of captures I was pretty confident that
I was behind by much more than komi. Still the game was incredibly
enjoyable and I had a lot fun. It'd been a while since I'd played an
even game over a real board and it was a real treat.

After the game, I lingered briefly as the volunteers started breaking
things down and packing the equipment. I asked whether they were
excited about the upcoming AlphaGo matches and everyone smiled and
said they were. It sounded like the Seattle Go Center would hold
another special event at their location for members to follow the
games. I definitely felt a twinge of envy. Watching Ke Jie face
AlphaGo with a bunch of Go nuts sounds like a heck of a good time.

I suspect I'll be back in Seattle at some point of the future and I
fully intend to stop by the actual location next time. Still based
just on my wonderful interactions with the Seattle Go Center member
I'd say it's worth checking out!
